docs/dice_notation.rst, before:

Dice Notation
=============

*Dice notation* is nearly fully understood by pydice.

*xdice* is case insensitive.

Dice
----

    Patterns describes here can be passed to the Dice.parse() class
    method, and will then return the corresponding Dice object.

`See Wikipedia for a complete definition.`_

Bases
^^^^^

Die rolls are given in the form AdX. A (amount) and X (sides) are
variables, separated by the letter “d”, which stands for die or dice.

-  A is the number of dice to be rolled (1 if omitted).
-  X is the number of faces of each die.

    For example, if a game would call for a roll of d4 or 1d4 this would
    mean, “roll one 4-sided die.” 3d6 would mean, “roll three
    six-sided dice”

Default values
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If the A value is omitted, it is assumed to be a 1.

If the X value is omitted, it is assumed to be a 20.
This behavior can be modified trough the class property Dice.DEFAULT\_SIDES.

D% Notation
^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``D%`` notation is allowed, and read as ``D100``.

Selective results
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``AdX`` pattern can be followed by ``Ln`` and/or ``Hn`` (‘L’ and ‘H’
respectively stand for lowest and highest).

In this case, the lowest/highest n scores will be discard when the dice
will be rolled.

> Eg: ``3D6L1`` will roll three 6-sided dice, and drop the lowest, while ``3D6H1`` will roll three 6-sided dice, and drop the highest.

Notes: 

- If no number follow the ‘L’ or ‘H’, it is assumed to be a 1.
- ‘L’ and ‘H’ can be combined inside a single pattern, but 'L' must precede 'H': ``6D6L1H2``


Patterns
--------

    Patterns describes here can be passed to the Pattern.parse() class
    method.

``AdX`` notations can be used in more complex expressions.

Any mathematical expression is allowed:

::

    >> 1d10+1d5+1
    >> 1d20-6
    >> 1d6*2
    >> 2d20//4
    >> 1d6*(1d4**2)


Following builtin python functions are also allowed: ``abs``, ``max``,
``min``. That mean you can parse patterns like ``max(1d6+1, 2d4)``.


Repeat
^^^^^^

The ``Rn(AdX)`` notation can be used to roll n times the ``AdX`` command.

For example, the pattern ``R3(2d6+2)`` will roll ``2d6+2`` three times: ``(2d6+2)+(2d6+2)+(2d6+2)``


Examples
--------

-  ``1d6`` 				> Roll a 6-sided die
-  ``1d6+3`` 			> Roll a 6-sided die, then add 3
-  ``2*(1d6+3)`` 		> Roll a 6-sided die, add 3, then multiply by 2
-  ``3d6L2`` 			> Roll three 6-sided dice, and drop the two lowest.
-  ``R2(1d6+3)`` 		> Similar to ``1d6+3+1d6+3``
-  ``1d%`` 				> Similar to ``1d100``
-  ``d6`` 				> Similar to ``1d6``
-  ``min(1d6+10,3d6)`` 	> Keep the minimal score between ``1d6+10`` and ``3d6``

.. _See Wikipedia for a complete definition.: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dice_notation

Commit message:

Add dice 'explosion' (adxX or adx!)

docs/dice_notation.rst, after:

Dice Notation
=============

*Dice notation* is nearly fully understood by pydice.

*xdice* is case insensitive.

Dice
----

    Patterns describes here can be passed to the Dice.parse() class
    method, and will then return the corresponding Dice object.

`See Wikipedia for a complete definition.`_

Bases
^^^^^

Die rolls are given in the form AdX. A (amount) and X (sides) are
variables, separated by the letter “d”, which stands for die or dice.

-  A is the number of dice to be rolled (1 if omitted).
-  X is the number of faces of each die.

    For example, if a game would call for a roll of d4 or 1d4 this would
    mean, “roll one 4-sided die.” 3d6 would mean, “roll three
    six-sided dice”

Default values
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If the A value is omitted, it is assumed to be a 1.

If the X value is omitted, it is assumed to be a 20.
This behavior can be modified trough the class property Dice.DEFAULT\_SIDES.

D% Notation
^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``D%`` notation is allowed, and read as ``D100``.

Selective results
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``AdX`` pattern can be followed by ``Ln`` and/or ``Hn`` (‘L’ and ‘H’
respectively stand for lowest and highest).

In this case, the lowest/highest n scores will be discard when the dice
will be rolled.

> Eg: ``3D6L1`` will roll three 6-sided dice, and drop the lowest, while ``3D6H1`` will roll three 6-sided dice, and drop the highest.

Notes: 

- If no number follow the ‘L’ or ‘H’, it is assumed to be a 1.
- ‘L’ and ‘H’ can be combined inside a single pattern, but 'L' must precede 'H': ``6D6L1H2``

Exploding dice
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Append an ``X`` or a ``!`` to a pattern to make the dice 'explode'.
'Explode' means each maximal score will trigger a new roll.
The resulting score will be add to the results.

For example, if ``3d6!`` give ``[6,3,2]``, one more die will be rolled (because 6 is the max value)
The final result could be ``[6,3,2,4]``.


Patterns
--------

    Patterns describes here can be passed to the Pattern.parse() class
    method.

``AdX`` notations can be used in more complex expressions.

Any mathematical expression is allowed:

::

    >> 1d10+1d5+1
    >> 1d20-6
    >> 1d6*2
    >> 2d20//4
    >> 1d6*(1d4**2)


Following builtin python functions are also allowed: ``abs``, ``max``,
``min``. That mean you can parse patterns like ``max(1d6+1, 2d4)``.


Repeat
^^^^^^

The ``Rn(AdX)`` notation can be used to roll n times the ``AdX`` command.

For example, the pattern ``R3(2d6+2)`` will roll ``2d6+2`` three times: ``(2d6+2)+(2d6+2)+(2d6+2)``


Examples
--------

-  ``1d6`` 				> Roll a 6-sided die
-  ``1d6+3`` 			> Roll a 6-sided die, then add 3
-  ``2*(1d6+3)`` 		> Roll a 6-sided die, add 3, then multiply by 2
-  ``3d6L2`` 			> Roll three 6-sided dice, and drop the two lowest.
-  ``R2(1d6+3)`` 		> Similar to ``1d6+3+1d6+3``
-  ``1d%`` 				> Similar to ``1d100``
-  ``d6`` 				> Similar to ``1d6``
-  ``min(1d6+10,3d6)`` 	> Keep the minimal score between ``1d6+10`` and ``3d6``

.. _See Wikipedia for a complete definition.: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dice_notation
